website/docs/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
---

在正式开始使用 Molecule 前，我们一起来简单的了解下几个基本的**概念**，以确保您能[快速开始](./quick-start.md) Molecule 的使用。

![molecule](/img/molecule.png)

## 扩展（Extension）

[扩展（Extension）](./guides/extension)是 Molecule 用来实现**功能自定义**的**插件技术**。通过扩展机制，我们可以轻松实现自定义扩展 **Workbench、 ColorTheme、i18n、Settings、Keybinding、QuickAccess** 等核心功能。

## 工作台（Workbench）

[工作台（Workbench）](./guides/extend-workbench)是 IDE UI 中最重要的部分了。在 Molecule 中我们把工作台抽象成了多个子组件：**MenuBar**、 **ActivityBar**、**Sidebar**、 **Editor**、**Panel**、**StatusBar** 主要 6 大模块。每个核心模块又分别提供了 **React 组件**和基础的**服务（Service）对象**，以便开发者进行操作或者自定义。

## 颜色主题（ColorTheme）

Molecule 兼容了 [VSCode ColorTheme](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/theme-color) ，并实现了一套简单**扩展**机制。通过快捷键 `Command/Ctrl + K` 即可打开主题「**切换面板**」，或者通过「**设置菜单**」，在菜单的最下面看到「**颜色主题**」。

在 Molecule 中我们有许多内置的主题，包括 `Dark`、 `Light`、`Monakai`、`Github Plus`、`High Contrast` 等等。

## 国际化（i18n）

Molecule 有一个基本的[国际化（i18n）](./guides/extend-locales)方案，并支持扩展（Extension）机制。默认有两种内置的语言，分别是**中文**和**英文**。
我们可以通过快捷键 `Command/Ctrl Shift + L` 打开语言「**切换面板**」，选择一种语言，然后确认选择，然后在页面的**右下角**将会有一个提醒窗口，点击确认会重新加载当前页面，之后语言环境就会发生更改。

更多关于**自定义**语言环境的细节，请参考[扩展语言环境](./guides/extend-locales)。

## 设置（Settings）

Molecule 支持通过在[设置（Settings）](./guides/extend-settings)中修改部分配置项。例如：当你想要修改**编辑器**的**字体**大小时，只需要打开设置菜单中的「**设置**」选项，然后把 `editor.fontSize` 的值从 **12** 修改至 **14** 即可。

更多关于去**扩展设置项**的内容，请参考 [扩展设置](./guides/extend-settings) 。

## 快捷键（Keybinding）

Molecule 利用 monaco-editor 强大的 Keybinding 服务，支持以扩展的方式自定义各种[快捷键（Keybinding）](./guides/extend-keybinding)。Molecule 默认也有一些内置的快捷键：

-   `Command/Ctrl + ,` 可以快速访问设置；
-   `Command/Ctrl + Shift + L` 可以快速切换**语言环境**；
-   `Command/Ctrl + Shift + P` 可以快速访问**Command Palette**；

关于如何**自定义快捷键**，请参考[扩展快捷键](./guides/extend-keybinding)。

## 快捷访问（QuickAccess）

![QuickAccess](/img/guides/quick-access.jpg)

[快捷访问（QuickAccess）](./guides/extend-quick-access)是 **VSCode、Sublime** 等编辑器工具中场景的一种交互组件。我们基于 monaco-editor 内置的 `QuickInputService` 和 Molecule 的扩展机制，让开发者可以轻松的实现自己的快捷访问。

更多关于如何**自定义快捷访问**的内容，请参考[扩展快速访问](./guides/extend-quick-access)来了解如何扩展快速访问面板。

## 原子组件（Components)

Molecule 提供了很多基本的 React UI [原子组件](./api/namespaces/molecule.component)，例如 [Menu][menu-url]、[TreeView][treeview-url][、ContextMenu][ctxmenu-url] 等等。而我们的 Workbench UI 就是在这些组件的基础上构建而来。通过这些内置的组件，我们可以在更大程度上，满足我们开发者在 UI 上的扩展诉求。另外，Molecule 支持引用例如 [antd](http://ant.design/) 这类第三方的 UI 组件库，来满足自己的自定义诉求。

目前我们使用了 Storybook 来开发维护这些组件，关于这些组件的使用，我们可以在源码仓库下的 [stories](https://github.com/DTStack/molecule/tree/main/stories) 中找到示例。

[menu-url]: ./api/namespaces/molecule.component#menu
[ctxmenu-url]: ./api/namespaces/molecule.component#usecontextmenu
[treeview-url]: ./api/namespaces/molecule.component#treeview

Commit message:

docs: translate Overview to English

website/docs/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
---

Before Molecule is for official use, let's learn some **fundamentals** about it, to make sure that you can have a [quick start](./quick-start.md) of Molecule.

![molecule](/img/molecule.png)

## Extension

[Extension](./guides/extension)is a **plug-in technology** used by Molecule to realize **function customization**. With the extension, it's easy to extend core functionalities such as **Workbench, ColorTheme, i18n, Settings,Keybinding, QuickAccess**.

## Workbench

[Workbench](./guides/extend-workbench)
is the most important part in IDE UI. It contains many components，which includes 6 main modules named **MenuBar**, **ActivityBar**, **Sidebar**, **Editor**, **Panel**, and **StatusBar** in Molecule.
Every core module improves both React Components and basic Service Object in order to make more easier to use or to hook for producers.

## ColorTheme

Molecule is compatible with [VSCode ColorTheme](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/theme-color), and implement a set of extension mechanisms. Use the shortcut combination `Command/Ctrl + K` to open the theme '**switch panel**', or through the '**settings menu**', you can see the '**ColorTheme**' at the bottom of the menu.

There are kinds of built-in themes in Molecule ,including `Dark`, `Light`, `Monakai`, `Github Plus`, `High Contrast`,etc.

## i18n

Molecule has a basic [Internationalization (i18n)](./guides/extend-locales) program and supports the extension mechanism. There are two built-in languages ​​by default, **Chinese** and **English**.
We can use the shortcut combination `Command/Ctrl Shift + L` to open the language 「**switch panel**」, select a language, and then confirm the selection, and then there will be a reminder window in the **bottom right corner** of the page. Clicking to confirm will reload the current page, and then the locale will be changed.

For more details about the **customized** locale, please refer to [Extended Language Environment](./guides/extend-locales).

## Settings

Molecule supports modifying some configuration items in [Settings] (./guides/extend-settings). When you want to modify the size of the **font** in the **editor**, you only need to open the '**Settings**' option in the settings menu, and then change the value of `editor.fontSize` from **12** amended to **14**.

For more details about the **Extended settings**, please refer to [Extended settings](./guides/extend-settings).

## Keybinding

Molecule utilizes the powerful Keybinding service of monaco-editor to support customizing various [Keybinding](./guides/extend-keybinding) in an extended manner. Molecule also has some built-in shortcut keys by default:

-   `Command/Ctrl + ,` can quickly access settings;
-   `Command/Ctrl + Shift + L` can quickly switch **locale**;
-   `Command/Ctrl + Shift + P` can quickly access **Command Palette**;

For how to **Customize Keybinding**, please refer to [Extended Shortcut Keys](./guides/extend-keybinding).

## QuickAccess

![QuickAccess](/img/guides/quick-access.jpg)

[QuickAccess](./guides/extend-quick-access) is an interactive component of scenes in editor tools such as **VSCode and Sublime**. We are based on the built-in `QuickInputService` of monaco-editor and Molecule's extension mechanism, allowing developers to easily implement their own quick access.

For more information on how to **customize quick access**, please refer to [Extended Quick Access](./guides/extend-quick-access) to learn how to extend the quick access panel.

## Components

Molecule provides many basic React UI Atomic Components such as [Menu][menu-url],[TreeView][treeview-url],[ContextMenu][ctxmenu-url],etc. At the same time, our Workbench UI is built on the basis of these components. Through these built-in components, we can meet the extension demands of out developers on UI to a greater extend. In addition, Molecule also supports the use of third-party UI component libraries like [antd](http://ant.design/), to meet its own custom requirements.

Currently, we use Storybook to develop and maintain these components. Regarding the use of these components, we can find examples in [stories](https://github.com/DTStack/molecule/tree/main/stories) under the source code repository.

[menu-url]: ./api/namespaces/molecule.component#menu
[ctxmenu-url]: ./api/namespaces/molecule.component#usecontextmenu
[treeview-url]: ./api/namespaces/molecule.component#treeview
