website/docs/quick-start.md, before:

---
title: Quick Start
sidebar_label: Quick Start
sidebar_position: 2
---

## 前置要求

> -   **Node.js 12.13.0 +** 版本
> -   **React.js 16.14.0 +** 版本
> -   [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/) - 推荐使用 **Yarn** 作为包管理

:::info
可以通过 `node -v` 命令查看当前 Node 版本。 推荐在 Mac 系统中使用 [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) 来管理 Node.js 多版本
:::

## 创建项目

我们使用 React 官方推荐的 [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) 脚手架工具作为示例，
这里我们**强烈推荐**使用 **Typescript** 模板：

```bash
npx create-react-app molecule-demo --template typescript
```

这个命令会在当前目录下，创建一个叫 `molecule-demo` 的目录，切换到项目文件夹：

```bash
cd molecule-demo
```

## 安装 Molecule

然后，你需要安装 molecule 的依赖：

```bash
yarn add @dtinsight/molecule
# 或者
npm install @dtinsight/molecule
```

这个命令会在 `molecule-demo` 项目中自动安装 Molecule 的依赖。

## 基本使用

打开 `src/App.js` 文件，将该文件的内容替换成如下：

```js title="src/App.js"
import React from 'react';
import { MoleculeProvider, Workbench } from '@dtinsight/molecule';
import '@dtinsight/molecule/esm/style/mo.css';

function App() {
    return (
        <MoleculeProvider extensions={[]}>
            <Workbench />
        </MoleculeProvider>
    );
}

export default App;
```

`extensions` 是需要自定义的扩展程序。

## 启动项目

最后，在终端中运行`start` 命令：

```bash
yarn start
# 或者 npm
npm run start
```

这个命令会自动在默认浏览器中打开 [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) 这个地址，即可看到 Molecule 默认的 IDE 界面。

![molecule](/img/molecule.png)

## 使用 Monaco Editor 语言包

使用 Monaco Editor 的语言包，需要使用插件 `monaco-editor-webpack-plugin`，所以这里我们得扩展下 **Webpack** 的默认配置。
首先我们先安装 [react-app-rewired](https://github.com/timarney/react-app-rewired) 工具，然后在项目根目录创建一个`config-overrides.js` 文件，用来覆盖默认 Webpack 配置。 `monaco-editor-webpack-plugin` 插件具体使用如下：

```js title="config-overrides.js"
const MonacoWebpackPlugin = require('monaco-editor-webpack-plugin');

/* config-overrides.js */
module.exports = function override(config, env) {
    //do stuff with the webpack config...
    config.plugins = [
        ...config.plugins,
        new MonacoWebpackPlugin([
            'javascript',
            'typescript',
            'css',
            'html',
            'json',
        ]),
    ];

    return config;
};
```

完整的代码示例，请查看 [molecule-demo](https://github.com/DTStack/molecule-examples/tree/main/packages/molecule-demo) 项目。

Commit message:

docs: translate the docs in English (#581)
* docs: translate the docs in english

* docs: translate extend-workbench (#584)

* docs: translate extend-workbench

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* docs: translate the guide docs

* docs: update docs

* docs: translate Overview, QuickStart to English (#592)

* docs: translate Overview to English

* docs: translate quick-start to English

* docs: translate the first extension to English

* Update website/docs/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* docs: update Overview for accurate translation

Co-authored-by: 野迂迂 <yangwei1@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* docs: update docs

Co-authored-by: jiming <jiming@dtstack.com>
Co-authored-by: 野迂迂 <yangwei1@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: shiqiWang0 <47959147+shiqiWang0@users.noreply.github.com>

website/docs/quick-start.md, after:

---
title: Quick Start
sidebar_label: Quick Start
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Prerequisites

> -   Node.js version: **Node.js 12.13.0 +**
> -   React.js version: **React.js 16.14.0 +**
> -   [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/) - Recommend to use **Yarn** as package management

:::info
use the `node -v` command to view the current Node version. It is recommended to use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) on Mac systems to manage multiple versions of Node.js.
:::

## Create a Project

We use the [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) scaffolding tool officially recommended by React as an example,
Here we **strongly recommend** the use of the **Typescript** template:

```bash
npx create-react-app molecule-demo --template typescript
```

This command will create a directory called `molecule-demo` in the current directory and switch to the project folder:

```bash
cd molecule-demo
```

## Install Molecule

Then, you need to install the dependency of molecule:

```bash
yarn add @dtinsight/molecule
# or
npm install @dtinsight/molecule
```

This command will automatically install Molecule's dependencies in the `molecule-demo` project.

## Basic Use

Open the `src/App.js` file and replace the contents of the file with the following:

```js title="src/App.js"
import React from 'react';
import { MoleculeProvider, Workbench } from '@dtinsight/molecule';
import '@dtinsight/molecule/esm/style/mo.css';

function App() {
    return (
        <MoleculeProvider extensions={[]}>
            <Workbench />
        </MoleculeProvider>
    );
}

export default App;
```

`extensions` are extensions that need to be customized.

## Startup Project

Finally, run the `start` command in the terminal:

```bash
yarn start
# or npm
npm run start
```

This command will automatically open the address [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in the default browser, and you can see the default IDE interface of Molecule.

![molecule](/img/molecule.png)

## Use Monaco Editor language pack

To use the language pack of Monaco Editor, you need to use the plug-in `monaco-editor-webpack-plugin`, so here we have to extend the default configuration of **Webpack**.
First, we first install the [react-app-rewired](https://github.com/timarney/react-app-rewired) tool, and then create a `config-overrides.js` file in the project root directory to override the default Webpack configuration. The specific usage of the `monaco-editor-webpack-plugin` plugin is as follows:

```js title="config-overrides.js"
const MonacoWebpackPlugin = require('monaco-editor-webpack-plugin');

/* config-overrides.js */
module.exports = function override(config, env) {
    //do stuff with the webpack config...
    config.plugins = [
        ...config.plugins,
        new MonacoWebpackPlugin([
            'javascript',
            'typescript',
            'css',
            'html',
            'json',
        ]),
    ];

    return config;
};
```

For the complete code example, please check the [molecule-demo](https://github.com/DTStack/molecule-examples/tree/main/packages/molecule-demo) project.
