website/docs/api/index.md, before:

---
id: 'index'
title: 'molecule'
slug: '/api/'
sidebar_label: 'Readme'
sidebar_position: 0
custom_edit_url: null
---

# Molecule

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/DTStack/molecule/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=PDjbCBo6qz)](https://codecov.io/gh/DTStack/molecule)

A Web IDE UI library built by React.js, inspired by the Visual Studio Code.

## Features

-   Provides the default IDE Workbench same as the Visual Studio Code
-   Allow to extends the default IDE Workbench
-   Supports customize the IDE Workbench by React Component easily

## Installation

```bash
npm install molecule
# Or
yarn add molecule
```

## Basic Usage

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { MoleculeProvider, Workbench } from 'molecule';
import 'molecule/esm/style/mo.css';

const App = () => (
    <MoleculeProvider extension={[]}>
        <Workbench />
    </MoleculeProvider>
);

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
```

For more complex examples please read the below document.

## Document

-   Basic React UI Components
-   Workbench Parts
-   Extension Services
-   Advanced Usage

## TODO

-   Allow Users to customize settings
-   Support internationalization, default includes zhCN, English
-   Support alter keybinding

## Contributing

Refer to the [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Licence

MIT

Commit message:

docs: integrated with the docusaurus

website/docs/api/index.md, after:

---
id: 'index'
title: 'Molecule'
slug: '/api/'
sidebar_label: 'Readme'
sidebar_position: 0
custom_edit_url: null
---

# Molecule

[![CI][ci-image]][ci-url] [![Codecov][codecov-image]][codecov-url] [![NPM downloads][download-img]][download-url]

[ci-image]: https://github.com/DTStack/molecule/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg
[ci-url]: https://github.com/DTStack/molecule/actions/workflows/main.yml
[codecov-image]: https://codecov.io/gh/DTStack/molecule/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=PDjbCBo6qz
[codecov-url]: https://codecov.io/gh/DTStack/molecule
[download-img]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@dtinsight/molecule.svg?style=flat
[download-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@dtinsight/molecule

A lightweight Web IDE UI Framework, built with React.js, and inspired by the Visual Studio Code.

## Features

-   Provides the default IDE Workbench same as the Visual Studio Code
-   Easy to extends the default IDE Workbench via the Extension
-   Atomic React Components, Easy to customize the IDE UI

---

## Installation

```bash
npm install @dtinsight/molecule
# Or
yarn add @dtinsight/molecule
```

## Basic Usage

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { MoleculeProvider, Workbench } from 'molecule';
import 'molecule/esm/style/mo.css';

const App = () => (
    <MoleculeProvider extension={[]}>
        <Workbench />
    </MoleculeProvider>
);

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
```

## Document

Refer to the [Docs](./docs).

## Contributing

Refer to the [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Licence

MIT
