website/docs/guides/extend-keybinding.md, before:

---
title: Keybinding
sidebar_label: Keybinding
---

[Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/) 内置来非常强大的 **快捷键（Keybinding）** 服务，Molecule 在此基础上，移植了 VSCode 中的 `Action2` 抽象类。开发者可以通过继承这个 `Action2` 对象，来实现一些**自定义 Action**，并可以通过
**快捷键、执行命令、Command Palette** 等方式来触发。

本文将详细阐述，如何实现自定义 **Keybinding Action**。

:::tip
本文内容中的所有代码，都以 [Quick Start](../quick-start) 中的 [molecule-demo](https://github.com/DTStack/molecule-examples/tree/main/packages/molecule-demo) 项目为基础演示。
:::

## 定义 Action 对象

首先，我们先基于 `Action2` 抽象类，定义 `KeybindingAction` 对象：

```ts title="src/extensions/action/keybindingAction.ts"
import {
    Action2,
    KeybindingWeight,
} from '@dtinsight/molecule/esm/monaco/common';
import { KeyCode, KeyMod } from '@dtinsight/molecule/esm/monaco';
//@ts-ignore
import { KeyChord } from 'monaco-editor/esm/vs/base/common/keyCodes';

export class KeybindingAction extends Action2 {
    static readonly ID = 'AutoSave';

    constructor() {
        super({
            id: KeybindingAction.ID,
            precondition: undefined, // Define some precondition
            f1: false, // Not show in the Command Palette
            keybinding: {
                weight: KeybindingWeight.WorkbenchContrib,
                when: undefined,
                primary: KeyChord(KeyMod.CtrlCmd | KeyCode.KEY_S),
            },
        });
    }

    run(accessor: any, ...args: any[]) {
        alert('Save success!');
        // do something
    }
}
```

代码中，`keybinding` 字段则是快捷键的主要部分。我们在 `primary` 这里定义了一个 `Command/Ctrl + S ` 的**组合键**，**触发函数** `run` 执行了一个 `alert`。 其中 `id` 参数为 当前 Action 的 **ID**，我们可以使用 `executeCommand(actionId)` 方法[主动触发](#主动执行-action) 这个 Action。

## 注册 Action

```ts title="src/extensions/action/index.ts"
activate(extensionCtx: IExtensionService): void {
    // Register the Action
    molecule.extension.registerAction(KeybindingAction);
    // Or
    // extensionCtx.registerAction(KeybindingAction);
}
```

定义好的 Action 对象，需要使用 [ExtensionService](../api/classes/molecule.ExtensionService) 对象的 `registerAction` 方法进行注册。

:::tip
Action 对象同样要在扩展程序 `activate` 的阶段进行注册，才能生效。
:::

## 主动执行 Action

除了使用 [Keybinding](extend-keybinding)、 **Command Palette** 的方式触发 **Action** 以外，
开发者也可以通过 [executeCommand](../api/classes/molecule.ExtensionService#executecommand) 方法去**主动触发**执行 Action。以 `KeybindingAction` 为例：

```ts
molecule.extension.executeCommand('AutoSave', args);
```

以上完整的示例请看 [molecule-examples](https://github.com/DTStack/molecule-examples/tree/main/packages/molecule-demo/src/extensions/action)。

Commit message:

docs: translate the docs in English (#581)
* docs: translate the docs in english

* docs: translate extend-workbench (#584)

* docs: translate extend-workbench

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* docs: translate the guide docs

* docs: update docs

* docs: translate Overview, QuickStart to English (#592)

* docs: translate Overview to English

* docs: translate quick-start to English

* docs: translate the first extension to English

* Update website/docs/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* docs: update Overview for accurate translation

Co-authored-by: 野迂迂 <yangwei1@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* docs: update docs

Co-authored-by: jiming <jiming@dtstack.com>
Co-authored-by: 野迂迂 <yangwei1@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: shiqiWang0 <47959147+shiqiWang0@users.noreply.github.com>

website/docs/guides/extend-keybinding.md, after:

---
title: Keybinding
sidebar_label: Keybinding
---

[Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/) has a very powerful **Keybinding** service built in. On this basis, Molecule has transplanted the abstract class of `Action2` in VSCode. Developers can implement some **custom actions** by inheriting this `Action2` object, and they can be triggered by **shortcut keys, execution commands, Command Palette** and so on.

This part will elaborate on how to implement a custom **Keybinding Action**.

:::tip
All code demos in this part are based on the [molecule-demo](https://github.com/DTStack/molecule-examples/tree/main/packages/molecule-demo) project in [Quick Start](../quick-start).
:::

## Define Action object

First, we define the `KeybindingAction` object based on the `Action2` abstract class:

```ts title="src/extensions/action/keybindingAction.ts"
import {
    Action2,
    KeybindingWeight,
} from '@dtinsight/molecule/esm/monaco/common';
import { KeyCode, KeyMod } from '@dtinsight/molecule/esm/monaco';
//@ts-ignore
import { KeyChord } from 'monaco-editor/esm/vs/base/common/keyCodes';

export class KeybindingAction extends Action2 {
    static readonly ID = 'AutoSave';

    constructor() {
        super({
            id: KeybindingAction.ID,
            precondition: undefined, // Define some precondition
            f1: false, // Not show in the Command Palette
            keybinding: {
                weight: KeybindingWeight.WorkbenchContrib,
                when: undefined,
                primary: KeyChord(KeyMod.CtrlCmd | KeyCode.KEY_S),
            },
        });
    }

    run(accessor: any, ...args: any[]) {
        alert('Save success!');
        // do something
    }
}
```

In the code, the `keybinding` field is the main part of the shortcut key. We define a `Command/Ctrl + S` **key combination** in `primary`, which **triggers** the `run` function to execute an `alert`. The `id` parameter is the **ID** of the current Action. We can use the `executeCommand(actionId)` method to [trigger](#actively-execute-action) this Action actively.

## Register Action

```ts title="src/extensions/action/index.ts"
activate(extensionCtx: IExtensionService): void {
    // Register the Action
    molecule.extension.registerAction(KeybindingAction);
    // Or
    // extensionCtx.registerAction(KeybindingAction);
}
```

The defined Action object needs to be registered by using the `registerAction` method of the [ExtensionService](../api/classes/molecule.ExtensionService) object.

:::tip
The Action object also needs to be registered in the `activate` phase of the extension to take effect.
:::

## Actively execute Action

In addition to using [Keybinding](extend-keybinding) and **Command Palette** to trigger **Action**, developers can also **actively trigger** the execution of Actions through the [executeCommand](../api/classes/molecule.ExtensionService#executecommand) method. Take `KeybindingAction` as an example:

```ts
molecule.extension.executeCommand('AutoSave', args);
```

The complete example can refer to [molecule-examples](https://github.com/DTStack/molecule-examples/tree/main/packages/molecule-demo/src/extensions/action).
