website/docs/guides/extend-locales.md, before:

---
title: i18n
sidebar_label: i18n
---

Molecule 内置了一个简单的**国际化（i18n）**方案，支持我们基本的国际化需求。我们内置了**简体中文（zh-CN）**、**英文（en 默认）**2 种基本的语言。

:::tip
本文内容中的所有代码，都以 [Quick Start](../quick-start) 中的 [molecule-demo](https://github.com/DTStack/molecule-examples/tree/main/packages/molecule-demo) 项目为基础演示。
:::

## 切换语言

默认我们提供了**2 种**方法切换。第一种使用 `Command/Ctrl + Shift + L` 快捷键：

![Select Display Language](/img/guides/extend-language.png)

第二种，打开使用快捷键 `Command/Ctrl + ,` 在 [Editor](./extend-workbench) 中打开[设置（Settings)](./extend-settings) 面板，修改 **JSON** 配置中的 `locale` 字段：

![Select Display Language](/img/guides/extend-language2.png)

修改完成后，Molecule 会在 通知栏[（Notification）](./extend-builtin-ui#通知栏notification)弹出更新消息，我们选择 **Reload** 即可重新加载。

## [本地化服务（LocaleService） 对象](../api/classes/molecule.LocaleService)

**LocaleService** 提供了一些基础的 [API](../api/classes/molecule.LocaleService) 方法，这些方法可以帮助我们完成对国际化功能的扩展，例如：

**本地化(localize)**一个对象:

```ts
molecule.locale.localize('sourceKey', 'default value');
```

设置**当前**的本地化语言：

```ts
// Set the zh-CN as the current locale language
molecule.locale.setCurrentLocale('zh-CN');
```

## 自定义语言

**国际化语言（i18n）** 同样是 Molecule 的一种扩展程序，我们提供了一种非常简便的**自定义语言**的方式, 支持使用 `JSON` 文件来定义国际化**语言包**数据。

我们一起来看个例子！

首先我们可以在自己项目中的 `extensions` 目录下，新建一个 `i18n` 的文件夹

```bash
src/extensions/i18n
├── index.ts
└── zh-CN.json
```

`index.ts` 用来定义本地化扩展对象

```ts
import { IContributeType, IExtension } from '@dtinsight/molecule/esm/model';

const zhCN = require('./zh-CN.json');
const locales = [zhCN];

export const ExtendLocales: IExtension = {
    id: 'ExtendLocales',
    name: 'Extend locales',
    contributes: {
        [IContributeType.Languages]: locales,
    },
};
```

`zh-CN.json` 为 [ILocale](../api/interfaces/molecule.ILocale) 类型的语言包资源文件:

```json
{
    "id": "custom-zh-CN",
    "name": "简体中文 - 自定义",
    "inherit": "zh-CN",
    "source": {
        "menu.file": "文件",
        "menu.newFile": "新建任务",
        "demo.running": "运行",
        "demo.dataSourceManagement": "数据源管理",
        "demo.terminal": "终端"
    }
}
```

其中 `inherit` 是可选项，表示是否**继承**已存在的**（zh-CN/en) **的语言文件，`source` 为具体的本地化数据，以 **key-value** 的形式表示。

添加完成后，**刷新**整个页面，我们可以通过 `Command/Ctrl + Shift + L `快捷键打开**语言切换面板**，找到 **简体中文 - 自定义** 选项。

:::info
遗憾的是，Molecule 虽然使用了 React 技术来构建整个应用，但是因为架构的原因，
目前无法做到切换后**实时切换**语言，需要**重新加载**整个页面应用，才能**刷新**语言环境。
:::

Commit message:

docs: translate the docs in English (#581)
* docs: translate the docs in english

* docs: translate extend-workbench (#584)

* docs: translate extend-workbench

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

* Update website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* docs: translate the guide docs

* docs: update docs

* docs: translate Overview, QuickStart to English (#592)

* docs: translate Overview to English

* docs: translate quick-start to English

* docs: translate the first extension to English

* Update website/docs/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* Update website/docs/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* docs: update Overview for accurate translation

Co-authored-by: 野迂迂 <yangwei1@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: Shawn <1322397827@qq.com>

* docs: update docs

Co-authored-by: jiming <jiming@dtstack.com>
Co-authored-by: 野迂迂 <yangwei1@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: shiqiWang0 <47959147+shiqiWang0@users.noreply.github.com>

website/docs/guides/extend-locales.md, after:

---
title: i18n
sidebar_label: i18n
---

Molecule has built-in a simple **internationalization (i18n)** solution to support our basic internationalization needs. We have built-in two basic languages: **simplified Chinese (zh-CN)** and **English (en default)**.

:::tip
All code demos in this part are based on the [molecule-demo](https://github.com/DTStack/molecule-examples/tree/main/packages/molecule-demo) project in [Quick Start](../quick-start).
:::

## Switch language

We provide **2 ways** to switch languages by default. The first way is to use the shortcut key `Command/Ctrl + Shift + L`:

![Select Display Language](/img/guides/extend-language.png)

The second way is to use the shortcut key `Command/Ctrl + ,` to open the [Settings](./extend-settings) panel in the [Editor](./extend-workbench), and then modify the `locale` field in the **JSON** configuration:

![Select Display Language](/img/guides/extend-language2.png)

After the modification is completed, Molecule will pop up an update message in the [Notification](./extend-builtin-ui#notification) bar, and then we can select **Reload** to reload the page application.

## [LocaleService](../api/classes/molecule.LocaleService)

**LocaleService** provides some basic [API](../api/classes/molecule.LocaleService) methods, these methods can help us to complete the expansion of internationalization functions, for example:

**Localize** an object:

```ts
molecule.locale.localize('sourceKey', 'default value');
```

Set the **current** localized language:

```ts
// Set the zh-CN as the current locale language
molecule.locale.setCurrentLocale('zh-CN');
```

## Custom language

**Internationalized language** is also an extension of Molecule. We provide a very convenient way to **customize the language**, which is to use `JSON` files to define internationalized **language package** data.

Let's take a look at an example!

First, you can create a new folder named `i18n` under the `extensions` directory in your project.

```bash
src/extensions/i18n
├── index.ts
└── zh-CN.json
```

`index.ts` is used to define localized extension objects.

```ts
import { IContributeType, IExtension } from '@dtinsight/molecule/esm/model';

const zhCN = require('./zh-CN.json');
const locales = [zhCN];

export const ExtendLocales: IExtension = {
    id: 'ExtendLocales',
    name: 'Extend locales',
    contributes: {
        [IContributeType.Languages]: locales,
    },
};
```

`zh-CN.json` is a language pack resource file of type [ILocale](../api/interfaces/molecule.ILocale):

```json
{
    "id": "custom-zh-CN",
    "name": "简体中文 - 自定义",
    "inherit": "zh-CN",
    "source": {
        "menu.file": "文件",
        "menu.newFile": "新建任务",
        "demo.running": "运行",
        "demo.dataSourceManagement": "数据源管理",
        "demo.terminal": "终端"
    }
}
```

Among these properties, `inherit` is optional, indicating whether to **inherit** the existing **(zh-CN/en)** language files, and `source` indicates the specific localized data, whose content is expressed in the form of **key-value**.

After adding the language pack resource file, **refresh** the entire page. You can open the language switch panel with the shortcut key `Command/Ctrl + Shift + L`, and then you can find the `简体中文 - 自定义` option.

:::info
Unfortunately, although Molecule uses React to build the entire application, it is currently unable to **switch languages in real time** due to architectural reasons. The entire page application needs to be reloaded to refresh the locale.
:::
